-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA256

title: Content Separation
author: Jeremy Greer
date: Sun May 20 19:23:25 EDT 2018

- ---

This idea that content should be separate from structure is really resonating
with me.  Sure, it's only been a couple hours, but whatever.

So instead of kicking back and wearing a smug grin because I know the best way
to do something, it's time to give it a whirl.  Maybe it's a stupid idea and
I'm too ignorant right now to understand why.

- ---

I've got to realize that little things like the --- above is sybolism.  That's
a convention from Markdown, but it's also a generic way to show a break in
thought.  It's easy to argue that it's structure.  What other things are there?

* Timestamp - That's a convention.  It may not always be present.  What if
  it's in a different part of the document?  It will always make sense in
  text, but it may be hard to find and parse reliably for a translator, a
  process that molds the content into the structure.

* Title - This is similar to the timestamp.  It's probably near the same place
  all the time, most likely separated with whitespace, but maybe not.  Both of
  these are meta info about the document, not the actual document.

The simplest solution for including meta data would be to provide a meta
section.  It would need to follow some type of convention, but it wouldn't
need to be cryptic.

- ---
title: Something Really Nifty
author: Jeremy Greer
date: Sun May 20 19:23:25 EDT 2018
- ---

You could argue that this is _not_ part of the content.  That is true, I
guess, but then who else owns this info?  What if you found the content
floating around the Sargasso Sea?  How would you know who made it and when it
was made?  To that end, it would probably be a good idea to include a GPG
signature to verify the content is authentic.

- ---

I've been including a couple other Markdown inspired conventions here out of
habit.  They're still meaningful in text, even when the reader doesn't know
Markdown.  Plain text is allowed to have symbols.  We do all the time, like
punctuation.  Hell, text is just a bunch of symbols.

To clarify, I guess we're looking at building transformers that can do the
heavy lifting.  The author should not be concerned with conventions for the
convenience of some future interpreter.  The onus is on the transformer to
understand the content.

- ---

I really like this idea.  It frees the content from worrying about structure
conventions.  If there are conventions, the translator should be able to pick
them up and work with them.  Any that get missed should end up as text and,
assuming they had meaning in the text-only form, would still have meaning.

- ---

One other aspect I can't account for is accessories that an author would like
to include.  Initially, I thought of links and images, but those are really
just references.  A link seems easy enough to find and convert to an anchor
tag.  How would you handle an image, though?  It's just another url.  The
translator could fetch it and check the file type or you could guess based on
the url (check for an extension).  Maybe a contextual guess would work.

Or maybe you don't have to preemptively solve every possible problem before
trying something out.  I just said above that it was the responsibility of the
translator to interpret the content.

As a general rule of thumb, the content should always be able to stand alone.
That's where the ideas and information reside.  All the rest is just different
ways to display it.
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----

iQEzBAEBCAAdFiEE+HWSq88ULKu5j9Q2m/bgXnuPW8IFAlsCIkIACgkQm/bgXnuP
W8IUqwf/XRxtsAjtyKnXB4C/GBlX/cT9GCRwFB8mRagnYs9UyeghbB76MvrFUR05
ofmmdBMs/1o8YWcMgq/FA0zLCSx/sUA5yBFeDL6Ng7G4ii3aEhWWFYi1uf9oJCEM
L84xqcP/rqMDeA01jZT1ESRAzIuFI4xiD4HTisBWLR1uSHs1kKTYghgXzmo2ZhcM
QJYq4SyMOs6578W9QRUixRcMd6SVsGISowhNtXv4beYYHhrNjxW5lqKQ+pD1tUAU
cILZWMQJC++e0QhJpZs1f3YIp9F5qJYio9BkRrqESwqE0L811XYCYkvAzJy5wpn3
gHmtrd1m/bgRZsITMsVDIu42/Vv9Kg==
=IVkE
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
